>> Jem Young: HTTPS, we had a long
session on security, but what is HTTPS?
Why do we need it?
We touched on it a little bit.
Sam?
>> Speaker 2: It's SSL over, or
secure sockets layer, over HTTPS.
>> Jem Young: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Over HTTP.
>> Jem Young: And why we need it though?
>> Speaker 2: So that anybody and
their dog can't inspect the traffic
between you and the server?
>> Jem Young: That's exactly right.
It's kind of wild to think that in
the olden days of not that long
ago I literally could just
set up a fake router or
I could just tap into your phone line and
intercept all of the data that's coming
and going and it was totally unencrypted.
It's the equivalent of me yelling
across the room, what my data is.
And if someone just happens
to be in earshot of that,
they know exactly what I'm doing.
And this is the way
the Internet used to work.
Fortunately now, thanks to persistence
of a lot of the tech companies and
mainly browsers, we all use HTTPS now.
And that's one of the things that, again,
it's fascinating that the Internet
keeps working the way it does.
And we keep pushing these new
protocols and standards forward,
even though there's no one entity
that saying how we should operate.
But HTTPS, what it does is it
encrypts all the data in transit.
In the old days and
current days with HTTP, if I was going to
frontendmasters.com put in my credit
card information, it'd be in plain text.
I could just intercept that packet and
read it.
And I can even pass it along back to
frontendmasters, so that they wouldn't
even know or you wouldn't even know that
your data is being sniffed and stolen.
In fact, they can keep doing that for
years and people did that.
And people were like,
why is it when I use this website,
about a month later my credit
card gets stolen mysteriously?
And it's because people were sitting in
the middle and intercepting requests.
And those are probably the most
nefarious kinds of attackers,
the ones that don't let you know
that they're doing anything.
You just sort of start the seeing
things go wrong here in there.
But now so what it use to be
another benefit of HTTP was,
or a down side of HTTP was you couldn't
guarantee who you were talking to.
For instance, we talked earlier
about if I let my domain expire and
someone picks it up really
quickly which they tend to do.
I can now create jemyoung.com or
frontendmasters.com if let it drop and
you have no proof that this isn't
the person you were talking to before.
Because most people don't,
you're not checking IP addresses.
Most people are never gonna
check out IP addresses.
You're just gonna check that domain name.
And I think it's really interesting
that the Internet used to be like this.
You used to be able to
do all these things.
If Google let its domain expire,
I can just be, like, I'm now Google.
Yeah, go ahead and log in.
You can't log in?
Wow, just keep trying.
Keep entering all your credentials.
And we'd just say, the Internet's
broken or something like that.
Because I'm clearly on google.com and
there's no way of verifying that.
But HTTPS not only encrypts things in
transport, it says, hey, the person you're
talking to is guaranteed that you're
talking to them and we guarantee it.
Now who guarantees that?
It's something called
certificate authorities.
Again, the Internet is built on trust and
certificate authorities are trusted
authorities that validate
you are who you say you are.
Does that any questions on that so far?
Cuz we're gonna keep going on HTTPS.
Is anybody shocked that the Internet
used to be this way and
now it's getting better?
And I think if the next generation will
say, wait, the Internet was like this.
That was, wow,
it was just like the wild west of
people shooting guns left and right.
And I'll be like, yeah, pretty much.
It was anything goes back in the day.
Fortunately now, with HTTPS,
you can't sniff that traffic.
It's encrypted on the clients and
decrypted on the server.
So it's that public key
authentication again.
It's not SSH, but think of it similarly
where the client has a key and
a certificate that it
gets from the server.
So the first time I connect
the frontendmasters.com, they say, okay,
you've never been here before.
Here's my public certificate
verifying who I am.
And here's how to encrypt all that data.
So I use that public certificate
to encrypt all the data, and
then I send it down the
frontendmasters.com or your server, and
anything between is just jibberish.
It's just encrypted data.
The only one who can decrypt it is
Frontend Masters because they hold that
private key.
And your server holds a private key.
So no one in between can encrypt it.
Funny enough, and this makes me
really suspicious of the government,
they were not against HTTPS.
Generally, when it comes to encryption,
the government is against all of it,
because they can't read your data anymore,
but
they don't really have beef with HTTPS.
Which makes me really suspicious,
that's totally a tangent and
not related to this course.
But, what happens is now,
if you're like I have HTTPS everything's
secure everything's hunky dory.
We're good, we're never have
to worry about security again.
This all depends on those
certificate authorities.
So if when I registered my domain, I say,
hey Mrs. security certificate authority,
I'm Jem Young and
I'm going to register jemyoung.com.
They're like, how do we know
you are who you say you are?
And you go through a series of
authentication steps and you're like,
okay, yeah,
this this person is trustworthy.
We're gonna put our stamp
on it that verifies it.
And if we go to our browser,
we can actually check out
the certificate authorities.
Let's try, what's a random website,
let's say Google,
it's an easy one, Google.com.
And I can look here, I say connection is
secure, I can look at the certificate.
We can dig in that certificate a bit more.
>> Jem Young: And it has a bunch of
information about who the authority is,
like how do we know these people
are who they say they are.
There are different
levels of certificates.
The more expensive ones where you see
the full, this site is verified by that
it's actually google.com,
are the more expensive ones.
That's not the kind we're
gonna implement today.
Those tend to cost a bit more money, we're
gonna implement a free one in a second,
which should be pretty fun.
But it tells you all about the algorithm
that's encrypting that data.
Some are more secure than others.
So here's a, yes?
>> Speaker 2: It's elliptic
curve public key, and
that's the NSA has known vulnerabilities.
>> Jem Young: As far as we know.
And if they did, would they tell us?
>> Speaker 2: No, they've already-
>> Jem Young: They've proven it?
>> Speaker 2: It's known, that's why
the government hunky dory with SSL.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, well, yeah,
man I should do a section on cryptography.
Now I to be honest, I am not
qualified to talk about cryptography,
most people are not unless
you're a mathematician.
But the rule on cryptography and
things like that, don't roll your own,
you're not smart enough.
[LAUGH] I don't mean that to be mean.
If you roll your own crypto,
you're gonna be in trouble.
That's why we have these known algorithms
that you can only use for HTTPS.
You can't just, I'm gonna create Jem's
hashing algorithm and then serve that out.
That doesn't work.
You have to use a known standard that
everybody agrees on.
But speaking of cryptography and
encrypting things,
what's the downside of using like,
instead of 256 bits for
the key, say using 1024 or 248?
Yes, here?
>> Speaker 3: More bytes, more data,
it's slower.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, it's slower.
You're theoretically more secure.
But there's a point of diminishing returns
where you're like my data is ultra secure,
but it now takes longer and
all these things add up over time.
These are microseconds, nanoseconds, but
if you use a giant key and it hashes,
the client has to decrypt that,
the server has to decrypt that too.
Weird facts, when we converted Netflix
over to HTTPS, it costs us a few million
dollars in compute time, because all
that cryptography of decrypting and
encrypting, decrypting and
encrypting, that cost CPU time.
And when you're talking about trillions
of requests, that adds up really quickly.
So that's why HTTPS was
really slow to roll it out.
The reason why it has rolled
out successfully today is
because browsers made us.
They started shaming people now where if
it's not encrypted there's like a big like
slash or the lock sign or
something like that because they want to
encourage people to use HTTPS because
it's just a better way of doing things.
In fact you can't use a service
workers web bluetooth,
web secure payments things
like that without HTTPS.
And that's just like a little
nudge by the browsers,
hey if you want to use the latest
features, you better upgrade your system.